# CLI Deep Dive & Troubleshooting

In the next lecture we'll create our first Angular App. For this, we'll
use the Angular CLI.

Angular CLI (Command Line Interface) is a powerful command-line tool
that simplifies the development and management of Angular applications.
It provides a set of commands and utilities to scaffold, build, test,
and deploy Angular projects efficiently.

-----

If you want to dive deeper into the CLI and learn more about its usage,
have a look at its official documentation:
[https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/wiki](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/wiki)

You encountered issues during the installation of the CLI or setup of a
new Angular project?

A lot of problems are solved by making sure you're using the latest
version of NodeJS, npm and the CLI itself.

#### Updating NodeJS:

Go to nodejs.org and download the latest version - uninstall (all)
installed versions on your machine first.

#### Updating npm:

Run `sudo npm install -g npm` (sudo is only required on Mac/ Linux)

#### Updating the CLI

```
sudo npm uninstall -g angular-cli @angular/cli 
```

```
npm cache verify 
```

```
npm install -g @angular/cli 
```

### Here are some common issues & solutions:

##### Creation of a new project takes forever (longer than 3 minutes)

That happens on Windows from time to time => Try running the command
line as administrator

##### You get an EADDR error (Address already in use)

You might already have another ng serve process running - make sure to
quit that or use `ng serve --port ANOTHER-PORT` to serve your project on
a new port

##### My changes are not reflected in the browser (App is not compiling)

Check if the window running ng serve displays an error. If that's not
the case, make sure you're using the latest CLI version and try
restarting your CLI
