# Component selector

In Angular, the component selector metadata is used to define how a
component is identified and referenced within the application's
templates. It specifies a custom HTML tag or an attribute that
represents the component in the HTML markup.

The selector metadata is defined within the `@Component` decorator,
which is applied to the component class. Here's an example of how the
selector metadata is used:

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'app-example',
  // other component metadata...
})
export class ExampleComponent {
  // component class implementation...
}
```

In the above example, the selector metadata is defined as `selector:
'app-example'`. This means that the component will be identified using
the HTML tag `<app-example>`. Within the templates of other components,
this custom tag can be used to include an instance of the
`ExampleComponent`.

The component selector can also be defined as an attribute selector by
using square brackets. Here's an example:

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: '[appExample]',
  // other component metadata...
})
export class ExampleComponent {
  // component class implementation...
}
```

In this case, the selector metadata is defined as `selector:
'[appExample]'`. This allows the component to be referenced using the
attribute `appExample` in the HTML markup. For example, `<div
appExample></div>` would include an instance of the `ExampleComponent`
as an attribute on the `<div>` element.

The selector can also include CSS selectors to target specific elements
or classes. For example, `selector: 'h1#title'` would match the `<h1>`
element with the `id` attribute set to `title`.

The component selector metadata provides a way to uniquely identify and
include instances of the component within templates. It allows Angular
to associate the component class with the specified selector, making it
available for use in other parts of the application's UI hierarchy.
