# Data binding

Data binding in Angular is a powerful feature that allows you to
**establish a connection between the data in your component's TypeScript
code and the templates** that define your component's user interface. It
enables you **to dynamically display, update, and synchronize data between
the component and the view**.

There are three main types of data binding in Angular:

1. **Interpolation (One-Way Binding)**: Interpolation is denoted by
   double curly braces (`{{ }}`) in your template. It allows you to
   insert dynamic values from your component's properties directly into
   the HTML template. The values are evaluated and rendered as strings
   in the view. Interpolation is a one-way binding, meaning changes in
   the component will be reflected in the view, but not vice versa.

Example:

```html
<p>Welcome, {{ username }}!</p>
```

2. **Property Binding (One-Way Binding)**: Property binding allows you
   to bind a property of an HTML element to a property of your
   component. It uses square brackets (`[ ]`) to bind the value of a
   component property to an element property. Changes in the component
   property will be reflected in the element's property.

Example:

```html
<button [disabled]="isButtonDisabled">Submit</button>
```

3. **Event Binding**: Event binding allows you to respond to user
   interactions, such as button clicks or mouse movements, by invoking
   methods in your component. It uses parentheses (`( )`) to bind an
   event of an HTML element to a method in your component.

Example:

```html
<button (click)="handleButtonClick()">Click me</button>
```

In addition to these one-way bindings, Angular also supports two-way
data binding, which combines property binding and event binding into a
single syntax using the `ngModel` directive. Two-way data binding allows
you to bind a property of an input field to a component property and
automatically keep them in sync. It's denoted by `[(ngModel)]`.

Example:

```html
<input [(ngModel)]="username" />
```

With data binding, you can create dynamic and interactive user
interfaces by connecting your component's data and behavior to the view.
It simplifies the development process and helps to ensure that your
application's data and UI are always in sync.
