# Life cycle hooks

Angular provides several lifecycle hooks that allow you to tap into
different stages of a component's lifecycle. These hooks are methods
that you can implement in your component class to perform actions at
specific moments. Here's a description of each Angular lifecycle hook:

- `ngOnChanges`: Called when input properties of the component change.

  > Usage tip: When your component has multiple `@Input` properties,
  > consider adding an `if` clause to limit the execution of specific
  > logic defined within that hook. This can help optimize the
  > component's performance by reducing unnecessary computations or
  > operations that may not be relevant for certain input scenarios.

- `ngOnInit`: Called once after the component's constructor and input
  properties have been initialized.

  > FAQ: at this point all the `@Input` properties has been initialized.

- `ngDoCheck`: Called during every change detection run.
- `ngAfterContentInit`: Called after content projection (ng-content) has
  been initialized.
- `ngAfterContentChecked`: Called after every check of projected content
  has been performed.
- `ngAfterViewInit`: Called after the component's view and child views
  have been initialized.

  > FAQ: at this point all `@ViewChild` static references has been
  > initialized. (more on this later)

- `ngAfterViewChecked`: Called after every check of the component's view
  and child views has been performed.

  > WARNING: this hook is called extremely often, be diligent on how you
  > use it and ALWAYS narrow its computation with an `if` clause.

- `ngOnDestroy`: Called just before the component is destroyed.

  > Usage tip: commonly used to call `unsubscribe` for any active
  > subscription (more on this later).

In this example, the `LifecycleComponent` implements all the Angular
lifecycle hooks:

```typescript
import {
  Component,
  OnInit,
  OnChanges,
  OnDestroy,
  DoCheck,
  AfterContentInit,
  AfterContentChecked,
  AfterViewInit,
  AfterViewChecked,
} from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-lifecycle-component',
  template: ` <h1>Angular Lifecycle Hooks Example</h1> `,
})
export class LifecycleComponent
  implements
    OnInit,
    OnChanges,
    OnDestroy,
    DoCheck,
    AfterContentInit,
    AfterContentChecked,
    AfterViewInit,
    AfterViewChecked
{
  constructor() {
    console.log('Constructor');
  }

  ngOnChanges(): void {
    console.log('ngOnChanges');
  }

  ngOnInit(): void {
    console.log('ngOnInit');
  }

  ngDoCheck(): void {
    console.log('ngDoCheck');
  }

  ngAfterContentInit(): void {
    console.log('ngAfterContentInit');
  }

  ngAfterContentChecked(): void {
    console.log('ngAfterContentChecked');
  }

  ngAfterViewInit(): void {
    console.log('ngAfterViewInit');
  }

  ngAfterViewChecked(): void {
    console.log('ngAfterViewChecked');
  }

  ngOnDestroy(): void {
    console.log('ngOnDestroy');
  }
}
```

In this example, the `LifecycleComponent` implements all the Angular
lifecycle hooks.

By inspecting the console output, you can observe the lifecycle hooks
being triggered at different stages of the component's lifecycle. This
can help you understand the sequence of events and perform necessary
actions at each stage.
