# Attribute directive

Let's say we want to create a directive called `HighlightDirective` that
adds a yellow background color to an HTML element when applied as an
attribute.

First, we need to define the directive using the `@Directive` decorator:

```typescript
import { Directive, ElementRef, Renderer2, OnInit } from '@angular/core';

@Directive({
  selector: '[appHighlight]',
})
export class HighlightDirective implements OnInit {
  constructor(private elementRef: ElementRef, private renderer: Renderer2) {}

  ngOnInit() {
    this.renderer.setStyle(this.elementRef.nativeElement, 'background-color', 'yellow');
  }
}
```

In the above code, we import necessary dependencies (`ElementRef` and
`Renderer2`) from `@angular/core`. The `@Directive` decorator specifies
the selector for our directive, which is `[appHighlight]`. This means we
can apply the directive using `appHighlight` as an attribute on an HTML
element.

Within the `HighlightDirective` class, we inject `ElementRef` and
`Renderer2` to access the element and manipulate its style. In the
`ngOnInit` method (from the `OnInit` lifecycle hook), we use the
`Renderer2` to set the background color of the element to yellow.

To use the `HighlightDirective`, you would include it as an attribute on
an HTML element in your Angular template:

```html
<p appHighlight>This paragraph will be highlighted in yellow.</p>
```

In this example, the `appHighlight` attribute is applied to the `<p>`
element. When the directive is applied, the background color of the
paragraph will be set to yellow.

Note: To use the custom directive, you must make sure to declare it in
an Angular module's `declarations` array and import the necessary
dependencies.

This is a simple example, but attribute directives can be more complex
and can perform various operations on the targeted elements based on
your application's requirements.
