# Structural directive

Let's create a directive called `UnlessDirective` that conditionally
renders its contents based on a condition.

First, we need to define the directive using the `@Directive` decorator:

```typescript
import { Directive, Input, TemplateRef, ViewContainerRef } from '@angular/core';

@Directive({
  selector: '[appUnless]',
})
export class UnlessDirective {
  private hasView = false;

  constructor(private templateRef: TemplateRef<any>, private viewContainerRef: ViewContainerRef) {}

  @Input() set appUnless(condition: boolean) {
    if (!condition && !this.hasView) {
      this.viewContainerRef.createEmbeddedView(this.templateRef);
      this.hasView = true;
    } else if (condition && this.hasView) {
      this.viewContainerRef.clear();
      this.hasView = false;
    }
  }
}
```

In the above code, we import necessary dependencies (`TemplateRef` and
`ViewContainerRef`) from `@angular/core`. The `@Directive` decorator
specifies the selector for our directive, which is `[appUnless]`.

Within the `UnlessDirective` class, we have a private property `hasView`
that keeps track of whether the template has been rendered or not. The
constructor injects `TemplateRef` and `ViewContainerRef`, which allow us
to access the template and the container where the template will be
rendered.

The directive defines an input property `appUnless` which accepts a
boolean value. Whenever this property changes, we check the condition.
If the condition is false and the template has not been rendered yet
(`!condition && !this.hasView`), we create an embedded view of the
template using `createEmbeddedView` method of `ViewContainerRef` and set
`hasView` to true. If the condition is true and the template has been
rendered (`condition && this.hasView`), we clear the view using `clear`
method of `ViewContainerRef` and set `hasView` to false.

To use the `UnlessDirective`, you would include it as a structural
directive on an HTML element in your Angular template:

```html
<div *appUnless="condition">
  <p>This paragraph will be rendered unless the condition is true.</p>
</div>
```

In this example, the `*appUnless` directive is applied to the `<div>`
element. The `<p>` element within the `<div>` will only be rendered if
the `condition` is false.

Note: To use the custom directive, you must make sure to declare it in
an Angular module's `declarations` array.

Structural directives provide powerful capabilities to manipulate the
DOM structure based on certain conditions. They allow you to
conditionally render, repeat, or remove elements, providing dynamic and
flexible templates for your Angular application.
