# Services

In Angular, a service is a class that is responsible for encapsulating
reusable functionality and data that can be shared across different
parts of an application. Services play a crucial role in implementing
the separation of concerns principle by separating the business logic
and data operations from the components.

Services in Angular are typically used for the following purposes:

1. **Data Sharing**: Services act as a centralized location for storing
   and managing data that needs to be shared between multiple
   components. They can be used to fetch data from APIs, store and
   manipulate application state, and provide data to components when
   needed.

2. **Business Logic**: Services encapsulate complex business logic and
   operations that are not directly related to the presentation layer.
   They handle tasks such as data validation, computations, and data
   transformations, providing a clean separation of concerns.

3. **Reusable Functionality**: Services can provide reusable
   functionality that can be shared across different components. For
   example, a logging service can be used to log events or errors
   throughout the application, and an authentication service can handle
   user authentication and authorization.

4. **Dependency Injection**: Services in Angular are typically
   instantiated using the dependency injection mechanism provided by the
   framework. This allows services to be easily injected into
   components, other services, or directives, promoting loose coupling
   and modularity.

To create a service in Angular, you can use the Angular CLI command `ng
generate service` or manually create a class decorated with
`@Injectable()`. The `@Injectable()` decorator is used to indicate that
the class can be injected with dependencies.

Here's an example of a simple service that provides a data-sharing
functionality:

```typescript
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';

@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root',
})
export class DataService {
  private data: Record<string, unknown>;

  setData(data: Record<string, unknown>): void {
    this.data = { ...data };
  }

  getData(): any {
    return this.data;
  }
}
```

In this example, the `DataService` class provides a `setData` method to
set the data and a `getData` method to retrieve the data. The
`@Injectable()` decorator with the `providedIn: 'root'` option ensures
that the service is available as a singleton throughout the application.

By injecting the `DataService` into components or other services, you
can easily share and manipulate data across different parts of your
Angular application.

Services are an essential part of building scalable and maintainable
Angular applications by promoting modular and reusable code. They enable
efficient data sharing, encapsulation of business logic, and provide a
way to centralize and manage shared functionality.

## TL;DR

A Service can be anything...
